iPhone 15 event: all the news on Apple’s new phones

While the iPhone 15 was undoubtedly the focus of Apple’s September 12th event, we also saw new AirPods Pro (second-generation) earbuds with a USB-C case plus two new updates to its watch line with the Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2 with new processors inside.
The iPhone 15 lineup’s most significant addition is a new USB-C port, while each model also comes with the Dynamic Island. The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max added an Action Button that replaces the mute toggle to go with new titanium bodies, ultra-thin bezels, and a higher starting price.
Apple also announced the new iOS 17 software update will be released on Monday, September 18th, and macOS Sonoma is coming on September 26th. New “FineWoven” accessories replaced the old leather cases, and its Emergency SOS via satellite feature can now cover car problems, too, thanks to a new partnership with AAA.
You can catch up on all the latest news from Apple’s September event in the stream below.


Apple officially announced the new iPhone 15 lineup at its Wonderlust event, which will go up for preorder on September 15th and ship a week later on September 22nd. Much like last year, there’s a baseline iPhone 15, a larger iPhone 15 Plus, and a pair of Pro models known as the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max. But while the expected processor bump to a new A17 Pro Bionic chip is here for the 15 Pro and 15 Pro Max (the standard 15 and 15 Plus get last year’s A16 Bionic), what’s vastly different this time around is the presence of a USB-C charging / data port and the inclusion of Dynamic Island on all new models.
While we still have to see how all these new iPhones shape up in our upcoming reviews, early adopters will have a chance to put in preorders beginning September 15th. If you’re stoked enough by the changes Apple made this year to warrant a day-one purchase, below is a breakdown of the various iPhone 15 models and links to Apple’s pricing and configuration details. We’ll update this post with more info once preorders officially begin and other retailers / carriers have more information.


The iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max will let you film spatial video you can watch on the Vision Pro
The newly announced iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max will soon let you capture “spatial video” that you can watch on the forthcoming Apple Vision Pro headset.:
The new phones will be able to use the main and ultrawide cameras to “create a three-dimensional video,” Apple SVP Greg Joswiak said during Tuesday’s Wonderlust event. You’ll then be able to watch the video captured from those cameras on the Apple Vision Pro, which the company is still planning to release in early 2024.


Apple’s new USB-C iPhone cables and dongles are predictably expensive:
Apple just made a lot of people’s Lightning cables and accessories suddenly redundant by introducing the new iPhone 15, 15 Plus, 15 Pro, and 15 Pro Max. Four phones, not a Lightning port in sight — Apple is all in on USB-C.
To make the transition easier, Apple is now selling a bunch of predictably expensive new cables and dongles. Starting with the one you’re almost certainly going to need to buy: the USB-C to Lightning Adapter, a $29.99 dongle into which you plug your Lightning device or cable and then plug the dongle into your new phone.


iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max hands-on:
We’ve just had our first chance to check out the new iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max, which Apple just announced at its annual fall event in Cupertino. There are lots of new things about the devices — camera upgrades, the new A17 Bionic chip — but there are three things about the phone you notice right away. The thing is made of titanium; there’s an Action Button on the left side; and that’s a USB-C port on the bottom. Oh, and a fourth thing: the sides of the phones on display were instantly and immediately covered in fingerprints.
At first glance, the 15 Pro looks just like the iPhones Pro before it. But pick one up, and the lighter weight due to the titanium frame is obvious, as are the curved edges. It’s just nicer to hold. Apple says the titanium has allowed it to make the sides of the device thinner, which certainly makes the display look bigger than usual, but it’s the same 6.1 inches on the Pro and 6.7 inches on the Pro Max.


Resident Evil 4 remake is coming to the iPhone 15 Pro:
The big Apple iPhone event did contain some tasty morsels for us gamers, as Apple announced that the Resident Evil 4 remake, Resident Evil Village, Death Stranding, Assassin’s Creed Mirage, and The Division Resurgence would all be coming to the iPhone 15 Pro later this year and in early 2024.
The advent of cloud gaming makes playing the huge releases reserved for PC and consoles on mobile possible. But because the games are being streamed to the phone, players have to rely on internet speeds to play. 


A first look at the new iPhone 15 with USB-C and a big camera upgrade:
Apple has just announced its new iPhone 15 models, and the big news is USB-C, a camera upgrade, the addition of the Dynamic Island, and even some improvements to the display.
We’ve just managed to get a first look at the iPhone 15 and 15 Plus, and the new colors look great. The matte back and rounded sides are noticeably nicer to hold than the prior models, and it’s essentially the great parts of the iPhone 14 Pro in a lighter, nice-to-hold casing.


Apple’s cheapest iPhone 15 Pro Max now costs more — but also has double the storage:
It might cost you a little more to buy an iPhone 15 Pro Max this year. The new phone has undergone some big changes, and with them comes a new starting price of $1,199 for a 256GB model. Last year, you could get a new iPhone 14 Pro Max for $1,099, but that came with 128GB of storage.
The iPhone 15 Pro’s starting price will remain $999, and Apple will release both phones on September 22nd, with preorders starting this Friday.


Here’s how the iPhone 15 Pro’s Action Button works:
Apple revealed the new iPhone 15 Pro today, and there’s a brand-new button on the side that can be customized to trigger a specific function. This new “Action Button” is similar to the one introduced on the Apple Watch Ultra, which can activate workouts, among other abilities.
The Action Button, which replaces the ring / vibrate switch, can be programmed to do things like activating the camera, turning on the flashlight, starting a Voice Memo, opening a note, switching Focus modes, or running your own custom shortcuts. You can also set accessibility options like Magnifier.


Apple iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max announced with titanium bodies and an Action Button:
Apple just announced its new high-end iPhones: the iPhone 15 Pro and 15 Pro Max. They’re made of titanium, they have Action Buttons, and Apple promises they’re the most powerful smartphones Apple has ever made. The 15 Pro starts at $999 with 128GB of storage, and the Pro Max at $1,199 with 256GB of storage. Both will be available for preorder this Friday and on sale September 22nd.
This year’s Pro has a 6.1-inch screen, and the Pro Max has a 6.7-inch display — same as the new iPhone 15 and 15 Plus. Both are powered by the A17 Pro chip, which Apple says has the fastest performance in any smartphone and can even challenge some high-end PCs. Along with a redesigned GPU, Apple seems to think these devices could be poised to level up the kinds of games you can play on your phone. (Of course, Apple likes to talk a lot about high-end gaming, and the results... don’t always keep up.)


Apple announces iPhone 15 with USB-C, a camera upgrade, and the Dynamic Island:
Apple has just announced the iPhone 15 and 15 Plus, and the big news is a USB-C port. Finally! We’ve been waiting for the day that the iPhone would switch to the widely used USB-C standard instead of Apple’s proprietary Lightning connector. Apple confirmed last year that it would make the change to USB-C to comply with the European Union’s upcoming regulations, and the iPhone 15 is now the first iPhone to make the switch.
The iPhone 15 is priced starting at $799 for a 128GB model, and the iPhone 15 Plus starts at $899 for a 128GB version. Both will be available on September 22nd, with preorders starting this Friday.
